Improvement/refactor getting started with docker tutorial (#63)
Knotx/knotx-website: src/render/tutorials/getting-started-with-docker/2_0.html.md

---
title: Getting Started with Docker
author: Mateusz512
keywords: tutorial
date: 2019-10-10
layout: tutorial
knotxVersions:
  - 2.0.0
---
## Overview

In this tutorial, we will set up a simple project based on the [Knot.x Starter Kit](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-starter-kit) template.

> We will implement our own custom handler that will print a simple message.

Author: done

What you’re going to learn:

> - How to [define API](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http#routing-operations) in [Knot.x HTTP Server](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http) using [Open API specification](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.2.m)

Author: ✔️

> - How to create a simple Handler and route it to the specific path

Author: done

> - How to create a simple [Handler](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http#knotx-http-server) and configure it in the `/api/hello` processing chain

Author: done

> - How to create a simple [Handler](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http#knotx-http-server) and configure it in the `/api/hello` processing chain

Author: ✔️

---
title: Getting Started with Docker
author: Mateusz512
keywords: tutorial
date: 2019-10-10
layout: tutorial
knotxVersions:
  - 2.0.0
---
## Overview

In this tutorial, we will setup a simple project based on the [Knot.x Starter Kit](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-starter-kit) template.

We will implement our own custom handler that will print a simple message.

What you’re going to learn:

- How to setup a Knot.x project based on the [Knot.x Starter Kit](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-starter-kit) template using Docker

> - How to create a simple Handler and route it to specific path

Author: done

## Setup basic Knot.x project

**Prerequisites**
You will need the following things to use Knot.x:
- JDK 8

> - Linux or OSX bash console (for Windows users we recommend using e.g. Ubuntu with [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10)).

Author: done

|   ├── Dockerfile                // Docker file with image definition.
├── functional                    // Keep here your functional tests. Example implementation included
├── gradle                        // Gradle wrapper and common gradle scripts
├── knotx/conf                    // Knotx configuration which will be copied to docker image
├── modules                       // Sub-modules of your project
│   ├── ...                       // example modules implementation
```

> ## Create a new routing path

Author: ✔️

> 

Author: done

> Let's take a look at `knotx/conf/openapi.yaml` file. 

Author: done

> Here we use [OpenAPI 3.0](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md) specification file that exposes APIs.

Author: done

> This is a HOCON (*Human-Optimized Config Object Notation*) file. More on HOCON  can be found in [this informal specification](https://github.com/lightbend/config/blob/master/HOCON.md).

Reviewer: Actually this is a YAML file. `operations.conf` is a HOCON file

Author: whoops! 🙉

> > In OpenAPI terms, paths are endpoints (resources), such as /users or /reports/summary/, that your API exposes, and operations are the HTTP methods used to manipulate these paths, such as GET, POST or DELETE. [~source](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/paths-and-operations/))

Reviewer 2: Why not removed?

> > In OpenAPI terms, paths are endpoints (resources), such as /users or /reports/summary/, that your API exposes, and operations are the HTTP methods used to manipulate these paths, such as GET, POST or DELETE. [~source](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/paths-and-operations/))

Author: done

> In OpenAPI terms, paths are endpoints (resources), such as /users or /reports/summary/, that your API exposes, and operations are the HTTP methods used to manipulate these paths, such as GET, POST or DELETE. [~source](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/paths-and-operations/))

We can see three distinguishable parts of this file:

 1.  Information about our project, which is quite self-explanatory:
 

>       ```hocon

Reviewer: Didn' notice it before but same thing - this particular file is actually YAML

Author: fixed

              default: '8092'
      
      ...
      ```
      Here we can see, for example, that our server will be registered on port `8092`. Notice variable substitution indicated by `{`brackets`}`. For more information on what can be configured here, see [this documentation](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md#serverObject). 
 3.  Paths configuration that explicitly specifies our endpoints, their paths, methods, responses and much more in a clear, easily readable and declarative way:
 
      ```yaml
      ...
      
      paths: 
      
        ...   
             
        /healthcheck:
          get:
            operationId: healthcheck-operation
            # https://vertx.io/docs/vertx-health-check/java/
            responses:
              '200':
                description: Everything is fine
              '204':
                description: No procedure are registered.
              '501':
                description: At least one procedure has reported a non-healthy status
              '500':
                description: One procedure has thrown an error or has not reported a status in time
      ...
      ```

>       Our Starter Kit template comes with example paths and methods defined. Let's see the `/healthcheck` API. It is used to express the current state of our application in very simple terms: UP or DOWN (more on that later in this tutorial).

Author: done

>       Our Starter Kit template comes with example paths and methods defined. Let's see the `/healthcheck` API. It is used to express the current state of our application in very simple terms: UP or DOWN (more on that later in this tutorial).

Author: done

      
      We can see that it is registered under `/healthcheck` path, it's method is a `GET` and it can have various responses depending on the state of the instance.
      

>       There's no magic behind it. Healthcheck is handled by a uniquely named operation. In this case: `healthcheck-operation`. We will take a look at how they are connected later in this tutorial. 

Author: done

> Now, that we know what's going on in this file, let's define our custom endpoint `/api/hello` and operation `hello-world-operation`.

Author: done

Simply add new routing configuration under `paths`:
```yaml
paths:
  /api/hello:
    get:
      operationId: hello-world-operation
      responses:
        default:
          description: Example API implemented in this tutorial
```

> ## Create a new operation

Author: done

> As previously mentioned, paths are connected with [operations](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.2.md#operationObject). Definition of handlers involved in the processing of a request for a specific operation is done in form of [Routing operations](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/tree/master#routing-operations). They are defined in `knotx/conf/routes/operations.conf`. 

Author: done

> This is a HOCON (*Human-Optimized Config Object Notation*) file. More on HOCON  can be found in [this informal specification](https://github.com/lightbend/config/blob/master/HOCON.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All routing operation entries are configured in the `knotx/conf/routes/operations.conf` file. It is the first time the Knot.x configuration appears. It uses the HOCON (*Human-Optimized Config Object Notation*) syntax. More on HOCON  can be found in [here](https://github.com/lightbend/config/blob/master/HOCON.md).
```

Author: done

Let's take a look at this file:

```hocon
routingOperations = ${routingOperations} [
  
  // routing operations for this project
  
]
```

`routingOperations` is an array of `routingOperation` objects. 

> `${routingOperations}` takes care of merging any previously defined routing operations with the ones you define here. More on that can be found [here](https://github.com/lightbend/config/blob/master/HOCON.md#array-and-object-concatenation).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`${routingOperations}` takes care of merging any [previously defined](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-stack/blob/master/src/main/packaging/conf/server.conf) routing operations with the ones you define here. More about HOCON concatenation possibilities can be found [here](https://github.com/lightbend/config/blob/master/HOCON.md#array-and-object-concatenation).

Please note that Starter Kit overrides [configuration files](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-stack/tree/master/src/main/packaging/conf) coming from Stack.
```

Author: done

> Let's take a look at a simple one we have out of the box:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's take a look at an example routing operation entry we get from Starter Kit:
```

Author: done

```hocon
  {
    operationId = healthcheck-operation
    handlers = [
      {
        name = healthcheck
      }
    ]
  }
```

> Nothing groundbreaking here. We define that for operation `healthcheck-operation` a single [handler](https://vertx.io/docs/apidocs/io/vertx/core/Handler.html) named `healthcheck` will be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `healthcheck-operation` operation defines the array of [Handlers](https://vertx.io/docs/apidocs/io/vertx/core/Handler.html) with single Handler, named `healthcheck`. Please note that Handlers can be easily reused so `healthcheck` is a Handler's factory unique name.
```

Author: done

|   ├── Dockerfile                // Docker file with image definition.
├── functional                    // Keep here your functional tests. Example implementation included
├── gradle                        // Gradle wrapper and common gradle scripts
├── knotx/conf                    // Knotx configuration which will be copied to docker image
├── modules                       // Sub-modules of your project
│   ├── ...                       // example modules implementation
```

## Create a new routing path

Let's take a look at `knotx/conf/openapi.yaml` file.

> It's an [OpenAPI 3.0](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md) specification file that defines the configuration of our project.

Author: done

We can see three distinguishable parts of this file:

 1.  Information about our project, which is quite self-explanatory:
 
      ```
      ...
      
      openapi: "3.0.0"
      info:
        version: 1.0.0
        title: Knot.x Starter Kit
        description: Knotx Starter Kit
        
      ...
      ```      
 2.  Server configuration that defines how our server behaves:
 
      ```
      ...
      
      servers:
        - url: https://{domain}:{port}
          description: The local API server
          variables:
            domain:
              default: localhost
              description: api domain
            port:
              enum:
                - '8092'
              default: '8092'
      
      ...
      ```

>       Here we can see for example that our server will be registered on port `8092`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Here we can see, for example, that our server will be registered on port `8092`.
```

Author: done

 3.  Paths configuration that explicitly specifies our endpoints, their paths, methods, responses and much more in a clear, easily readable and declarative way:
 
      ```
      ...
      
      paths: 
      
        ...   
             
        /healthcheck:
          get:
            operationId: healthcheck-operation
            # https://vertx.io/docs/vertx-health-check/java/
            responses:
              '200':
                description: Everything is fine
              '204':
                description: No procedure are registered.
              '501':
                description: At least one procedure has reported a non-healthy stat
              '500':
                description: One procedure has thrown an error or has not reported a status in time
      ...
      ```

>       Our Starter Kit template comes with some already defined paths out of the box. Let's take the `/healthcheck` above as an example. This endpoint serves the purpose of testing whether our dockerized distribution is up and running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Our Starter Kit template comes with example paths and methods defined. Let's see the `/healthcheck` API. It is used to express the current state of our application in very simple terms: UP or DOWN.
```

Author: done

      
      We can see that it is registered under `/healthcheck` path, it's method is a `GET` and it can have various responses depending on the state of the instance.
      
      There's no magic behind it. Healthcheck is handled by operation (more on that later in this tutorial) `healthcheck-operation` implemented as a handler in `HealthcheckHandlerFactory.java`. We will take a look at it later in this tutorial. Just to be brief: it simply calls our example endpoints (defined in `knotx/conf/openapi.yaml` as well). 
      
      This is a nice feature to have! Since we will be using Docker in this tutorial, we will tell docker to check if our instance is up and running by simply calling this endpoint and expecting a response.
      
      Let's take a quick peek at `docker/Dockerfile`:
      
      ```dockerfile
      ... 
      
      HEALTHCHECK --interval=5s --timeout=2s --retries=12 \
        CMD curl --silent --fail localhost:8092/healthcheck || exit 1
        
      ...
      ```
      Quite self-explanatory, isn't it? For more details see [this documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#healthcheck).
      

> Now that we know what's going on in this file, let's define our endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that, we know what's going on in this file, let's define our custom endpoint.
```

Author: done

|   ├── Dockerfile                // Docker file with image definition.
├── functional                    // Keep here your functional tests. Example implementation included
├── gradle                        // Gradle wrapper and common gradle scripts
├── knotx/conf                    // Knotx configuration which will be copied to docker image
├── modules                       // Sub-modules of your project
│   ├── ...                       // example modules implementation
```

## Create a new routing path

Let's take a look at `knotx/conf/openapi.yaml` file.

It's an [OpenAPI 3.0](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md) specification file that exposes APIs.

> In OpenAPI terms, paths are endpoints (resources), such as /users or /reports/summary/, that your API exposes, and operations are the HTTP methods used to manipulate these paths, such as GET, POST or DELETE. [~source](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/paths-and-operations/))

We can see three distinguishable parts of this file:

 1.  Information about our project, which is quite self-explanatory:
 
      ```
      ...
      
      openapi: "3.0.0"
      info:

>         version: 1.0.0

Reviewer: This has no quotation marks while `openapi` has them. Are they optional or is there a greater reason? Might be not obvious/confusing

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can add also:
```
  "contact": {
    "name": "Knot.x Community",
    "url": "http://knotx.io/community/"
  },
```

Author: It looks like the quotation marks are not mandatory.
I've copied this part from Starter Kit, so that might be a good idea to change that as well in other files.
What do you think @tomaszmichalak ?

        title: Knot.x Starter Kit
        description: Knotx Starter Kit
        
      ...
      ```      
 2.  Server configuration that defines how our server behaves:
 
      ```
      ...
      
      servers:
        - url: https://{domain}:{port}
          description: The local API server
          variables:
            domain:
              default: localhost
              description: api domain
            port:
              enum:
                - '8092'
              default: '8092'
      
      ...
      ```

>       Here we can see, for example, that our server will be registered on port `8092`.

Reviewer: Some short note about variables could be worth writing. It may not be super obvious.

Author: done

 3.  Paths configuration that explicitly specifies our endpoints, their paths, methods, responses and much more in a clear, easily readable and declarative way:
 
      ```
      ...
      
      paths: 
      
        ...   
             
        /healthcheck:
          get:
            operationId: healthcheck-operation
            # https://vertx.io/docs/vertx-health-check/java/
            responses:
              '200':
                description: Everything is fine
              '204':
                description: No procedure are registered.
              '501':

>                 description: At least one procedure has reported a non-healthy stat

Reviewer: Is it a typo? "state"?

Author: fixed

              '500':
                description: One procedure has thrown an error or has not reported a status in time
      ...
      ```
      Our Starter Kit template comes with example paths and methods defined. Let's see the `/healthcheck` API. It is used to express the current state of our application in very simple terms: UP or DOWN.
      
      We can see that it is registered under `/healthcheck` path, it's method is a `GET` and it can have various responses depending on the state of the instance.
      

>       There's no magic behind it. Healthcheck is handled by operation (more on that later in this tutorial) `healthcheck-operation` implemented as a handler in `HealthcheckHandlerFactory.java`. We will take a look at it later in this tutorial. Just to be brief: it simply calls our example endpoints (defined in `knotx/conf/openapi.yaml` as well). 

Reviewer: > Just to be brief: it simply calls our example endpoints (defined in `knotx/conf/openapi.yaml` as well). 

I'm not really sure what you meant by this. Consider rephrasing it. Also, there's no obvious connection between `healthcheck-operation` id and `HealthcheckHandlerFactory` class at this point in the tutorial. Maybe you should be more clear that java classes are later assigned to the operation ids.

Author: fixed by moving this to final chapter

>       This is a nice feature to have! Since we will be using Docker in this tutorial, we will tell docker to check if our instance is up and running by simply calling this endpoint and expecting a response.

Reviewer: What feature? Handler factory or healthcheck endpoint?

Author: removed

      
      Let's take a quick peek at `docker/Dockerfile`:
      
      ```dockerfile
      ... 
      
      HEALTHCHECK --interval=5s --timeout=2s --retries=12 \
        CMD curl --silent --fail localhost:8092/healthcheck || exit 1
        
      ...
      ```

>       Quite self-explanatory, isn't it? For more details see [this documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#healthcheck).

Reviewer: I feel like your style progressively gets a little more casual. Not saying casual is bad, just that the level of casuality increases 👔

>       Quite self-explanatory, isn't it? For more details see [this documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#healthcheck).

Reviewer: This might be that self explanatory. I would add a sentence summing up what this does.

Author: changed

      
Now that, we know what's going on in this file, let's define our custom endpoint.

Simply add new routing configuration under `paths`:

> ```hocon

Reviewer: Since this looks like a tutorial for complete beginners, one or two sentences about HOCON might be useful. A lot of people are probably not familiar with this format.

Author: done

paths:
  /api/hello:
    get:
      operationId: hello-world-operation
      responses:
        default:
          description: Example API implemented in this tutorial
```

Simple as that! 

Now let's take a closer look at what lies under `operationId: hello-world-operation` ...

## Create a new operation

> As you surely noticed, paths have something to do with [operations](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.2.md#operationObject). [Routing operations](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/tree/master#routing-operations) are defined in `knotx/conf/routes/operations.conf`. 

Reviewer: This doesn't really tell the reader anything. Maybe something more along the lines of 

> As you've noticed, every method has an operation id. Operations are [...] and they can be defined in [...]

Author: fixed

Let's take a look at this file:

```hocon
routingOperations = ${routingOperations} [
  
  // routing operations for this project
  
]
```

`routingOperations` is an array of `routingOperation` objects. 

> `${routingOperations}` takes care of merging any previously defined routing operations with the ones you define here.

Reviewer: Good place to link to the appropriate place in HOCON specification

Author: done

|   ├── Dockerfile                // Docker file with image definition.
├── functional                    // Keep here your functional tests. Example implementation included
├── gradle                        // Gradle wrapper and common gradle scripts

> ├── knotx                         // Knotx configuration which will be copied to docker image

Reviewer 2: I would use left side.

Author: done

          description: The local API server
          variables:
            domain:
              default: localhost
              description: api domain
            port:
              enum:
                - '8092'
              default: '8092'
      
      ...
      ```
      Here we can see for example that our server will be registered on port `8092`.
 3.  Paths configuration that explicitly specifies our endpoints, their paths, methods, responses and much more in a clear, easily readable and declarative way:
 
      ```
      ...
      
      paths: 
      
        ...   
             
        /healthcheck:
          get:
            operationId: healthcheck-operation
            # https://vertx.io/docs/vertx-health-check/java/
            responses:
              '200':
                description: Everything is fine
              '204':
                description: No procedure are registered.
              '501':
                description: At least one procedure has reported a non-healthy stat
              '500':
                description: One procedure has thrown an error or has not reported a status in time
      ...
      ```

>       Our starter-kit template is comes with some already defined paths out of the box. Let's take the `/healthcheck` above as an example. This endpoint serves purpose of testing whether our dockerized distribution is up and running.

Reviewer 2: I would use `Starter Kit` instead of `starter-kit`.

Author: done

>       Our starter-kit template is comes with some already defined paths out of the box. Let's take the `/healthcheck` above as an example. This endpoint serves purpose of testing whether our dockerized distribution is up and running.

Reviewer 2: remove `is`

Author: done

  }
```

Here we provide not one, but three different handlers. By defining them in an array, they will be called in order they're defined. Some of them even have some additional configurations defined explicitly or in another file. They will be passed as `JsonObject`s to the handler implementation.

Notice two additional imports: `${config.server.handlers.common.request}` and `${config.server.handlers.common.response}`. Here we use the handlers defined in [Knot.x source code](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/blob/master/conf/server.conf), which simplifies handling of basic requests without repeating the configuration over and over again for similar operations.

> Now that, we have a feeling of it, let's connect our `hello-world-operation` with a handler. Let's name the handler `hellohandler` (note: names must be unique!). We'll also make our message configurable.

Reviewer: I think those commas shouldn't be here

Author: fixed

> Now that, we have a feeling of it, let's connect our `hello-world-operation` with a handler. Let's name the handler `hellohandler` (note: names must be unique!). We'll also make our message configurable.

Reviewer 2: > we have a feeling of it

This can be a bit more formal.

Author: done

Simply add new routing operation to the array:

```hocon
  {
    operationId = hello-world-operation
    handlers = [
      {
        name = hellohandler
        config = {
          message = "Hello World From Knot.x!"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
```

> ## Creating new handler

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## API implementation: creating new Handler
```

Author: done

> Now we'll have to provide a handler to handle the request. Let's put it in a separate module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now it is time to code our custom logic printing "Hello World from Knot.x!". We will implement the [RoutingHandlerFactory](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/blob/master/api/src/main/java/io/knotx/server/api/handler/RoutingHandlerFactory.java) interface. We use Java but you can use any JVM-based language, such as Kotlin. Let's put it in a separate module.
```

Author: done

Finally, let's update the main project's `settings.gradle.kts` file, so that it will recognize the new module. 

Simply add those two lines:
```kotlin
include("hello-module")
```
and
```kotlin
project(":hello-module").projectDir = file("modules/hello-module")
```

## Docker

### Configuration
[Knot.x Starter Kit](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-starter-kit) project builds either stack (zip distribution) or Docker image. In this tutorial, we'll use the latter.
 
 Let's rename the image. Edit `gradle.properties` and change property `docker.image.name`:

```
docker.image.name=knotx-example/knotx-docker-tutorial
```

### Run

Now we are ready to run. First, let's build your docker image:
```
$ gradlew clean build-docker
```

If you take a closer look at build log (you can use `-i` flag for a more verbose process) you can see, that not only the project is being built, but also it:

- builds the Docker image
- starts a container for testing
- runs `healthcheck` test on the container and then executes functional tests (more on that in the next section)

But what *building the Docker image* means in this case?

> ![Starter Kit Docker Image](/img/blog/getting-started-with-docker/starter-kit-docker.png)

Reviewer 3: Is this absolute path to image correct?

Author: I was basing on all other existing tutorials and it seems that `/img` is sufficient.

  }
```

Here we provide not one, but three different handlers! Some of them even have some additional configurations defined explicitly or in another file. You'll learn about `fragments` and their power and functionalities in a different tutorial.

Notice two additional imports: `${config.server.handlers.common.request}` and `${config.server.handlers.common.response}`. Here we use the handlers defined in [Knot.x source code](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/blob/master/conf/server.conf), which simplifies handling of basic requests without repeating the configuration over and over again for similar operations.

> Now that we have a feeling of it, let's connect our `hello-world-operation` with some handler.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that, we have a feeling of it, let's connect our `hello-world-operation` with some handler.
```

Author: done

    └── src 
        └── main                   
            ├── java/com/project/example/healthcheck
            │     └── HelloWorldHandlerFactory.java                             // our handler   
            └── resources
                  └── META-INF/services
                        └── io.knotx.server.api.handler.RoutingHandlerFactory   // META-INF file used by Knot.x to find the handler   
```

Let's take a look at the three files required for our module to work.

`build.gradle.kts`
```kotlin
plugins {
    `java-library`
}

dependencies {

    "io.knotx:knotx".let { v ->
        implementation(platform("$v-dependencies:${project.property("knotx.version")}"))
        api("$v-fragments-api:${project.property("knotx.version")}")
        api("$v-fragments-handler-api:${project.property("knotx.version")}")
    }
    "io.vertx:vertx".let { v ->
        implementation("$v-web")
        implementation("$v-web-client")
        implementation("$v-rx-java2")
    }
}
```

`io.knotx.server.api.handler.RoutingHandlerFactory`
```
io.knotx.example.hellohandler.HelloWorldHandlerFactory
```

> In this file we list, line by line, all the RoutingHandlerFactory implementations we want Knot.x to see. It has to be full class identifier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this file we list, line by line, all the RoutingHandlerFactory implementations we want Knot.x to see. It has to be a canonical class name.
```

Author: done

> In this file we list, line by line, all the RoutingHandlerFactory implementations we want Knot.x to see. It has to be full class identifier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this file we list, line by line, all [RoutingHandlerFactory](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/blob/master/api/src/main/java/io/knotx/server/api/handler/RoutingHandlerFactory.java) implementations we want Knot.x to see. It has to be full class identifier. It uses [Java ServiceLoader](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/ServiceLoader.html).
```

Author: done

`HelloWorldHandlerFactory.java`
```
package io.knotx.example.hellohandler;

import io.knotx.server.api.handler.RoutingHandlerFactory;
import io.vertx.core.Handler;
import io.vertx.core.json.JsonObject;
import io.vertx.reactivex.core.Vertx;
import io.vertx.reactivex.ext.web.RoutingContext;

public class HelloWorldHandlerFactory implements RoutingHandlerFactory {

  @Override
  public String getName() {
    return "hellohandler";    // this has to be exactly the same string as in operations.conf file                                                 
  }

  @Override
  public Handler<RoutingContext> create(Vertx vertx, JsonObject config) {
    JsonObject jsonObject = new JsonObject()
        .put("message", "Hello World From Knot.x!");
    return event -> event.response().end(jsonObject.toString());
  }
}
```

And there is our handler!

The most important thing is to register it by its name. In our case, it was `"hellohandler"`. 

The handling it performs is simply ending the response with our *Hello World from Knot.x!* JSON.

Now we're ready to launch!

## Docker

### Configuration

> [Knot.x Starter Kit](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-starter-kit) project builds either stack (zip distribution) or docker image. In this tutorial, we'll use the latter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Knot.x Starter Kit](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-starter-kit) project builds either stack (zip distribution) or Docker image. In this tutorial, we'll use the latter.
```

Author: done

  }
```

> Here we provide not one, but three different handlers! Some of them even have some additional configurations defined explicitly or in another file. You'll learn about `fragments` and their power and functionalities in a different tutorial.

Reviewer: 1. What does it mean to have more than one handler? Make a note that they are called in the order they're defined, processing the same request.
2. Make a note that handler configurations are passed as `JsonObject`s in java. It's not obvious what reads the configuration
3. If someone don't know what fragments are they will be confused why you bring them up. Maybe write a short note that they are used for communication between handlers.

Author: done

Notice two additional imports: `${config.server.handlers.common.request}` and `${config.server.handlers.common.response}`. Here we use the handlers defined in [Knot.x source code](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/blob/master/conf/server.conf), which simplifies handling of basic requests without repeating the configuration over and over again for similar operations.

Now that, we have a feeling of it, let's connect our `hello-world-operation` with some handler.

Simply add new routing operation to the array:

```hocon
  {
    operationId = hello-world-operation
    handlers = [
      {

>         name = hellohandler

Reviewer: Hmmm... I feel like we could introduce configuratons here. Maybe something simple like

```hocon
name = hellohandler
config = {
   message = "Hello world 🐶"
}
```

What do you think?

Reviewer 2: I like this `config` here, please add.

Author: done + updated in example

      }
    ]
  }
```

## Creating new handler

> Almost there!

Reviewer: Personaly i think something more like "One more thing to be done" would be better. "Almost there" kind of feels like the reader is waiting for the tutorial to learn asap
But maybe I'm just picky :P

Author: removed

Now we'll have to provide a handler to handle our request. Let's put it in a separate module.

Create a new module under the `modules` folder. The structure should look like this:

```
modules

> └─ hellohandler

Reviewer: I'd change the name of this module. It suggests that you're supposed to create a seperate module for every single handler

Reviewer 2: @Voycawojka what do you mean?

Do you think that we should provide some `tutorialModule` where we put this `helloWorldHandler` ?

Author: renamed to `hello-module`

        api("$v-fragments-handler-api:${project.property("knotx.version")}")
    }
    "io.vertx:vertx".let { v ->
        implementation("$v-web")
        implementation("$v-web-client")
        implementation("$v-rx-java2")
    }
}
```

`io.knotx.server.api.handler.RoutingHandlerFactory`
```
io.knotx.example.hellohandler.HelloWorldHandlerFactory
```

In this file we list, line by line, all the [RoutingHandlerFactory](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/blob/master/api/src/main/java/io/knotx/server/api/handler/RoutingHandlerFactory.java) implementations we want Knot.x to see. It has to be a canonical class name. It uses [Java ServiceLoader](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/ServiceLoader.html).

`HelloWorldHandlerFactory.java`
```
package io.knotx.example.hellohandler;

import io.knotx.server.api.handler.RoutingHandlerFactory;
import io.vertx.core.Handler;
import io.vertx.core.json.JsonObject;
import io.vertx.reactivex.core.Vertx;
import io.vertx.reactivex.ext.web.RoutingContext;

public class HelloWorldHandlerFactory implements RoutingHandlerFactory {

  @Override
  public String getName() {

>     return "hellohandler";    // this has to be exactly the same string as in operations.conf file                                                 

Reviewer: Also it has to be unique (it has to, right?)

Reviewer 2: Must be unique.

Author: done

  }

  @Override
  public Handler<RoutingContext> create(Vertx vertx, JsonObject config) {
    JsonObject jsonObject = new JsonObject()
        .put("message", "Hello World From Knot.x!");

>     return event -> event.response().end(jsonObject.toString());

Reviewer: Maybe make a note that the handler itself is an object implementing the `Handler<RoutingContext>` interface. It isn't  clear with a lambda (it might be `Function` as far as this example is concerned)

Author: I think it's explicit enough by the method declaration

Reviewer: Right ➡️
